# one-million-songs-project

This repository is composed of different data engineering projects based on two datasets, <strong>the Million Song Dataset</strong> and <strong>a simulated log dataset from a music streaming app</strong>.

Using the following tools: 

<strong>PostgreSQL</strong>

<strong>Redshift</strong>

<strong>Spark </strong>

<strong>Apache Airflow </strong>

## About the Datasets 

### Song Dataset

The first dataset is a subset of real data from the [Million Song Dataset](http://millionsongdataset.com/). Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

### Log Dataset

The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this [event simulator](https://github.com/Interana/eventsim) based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.

## About the projects

### Data Modeling with Postgres
#### Project Description

`create_tables.py` Creates a Postgres database with tables designed to optimize queries on song play analysis. 

`etl.py` Created a database schema and ETL pipeline for this analysis. 

`test.ipynb` Created a test notebook to see the final outcome.

<!---  
You'll be able to test your database and ETL pipeline by running queries given to you by the analytics team from Sparkify and compare your results with their expected results.
In this project, you'll apply what you've learned on data modeling with Postgres and build an ETL pipeline using Python. To complete the project, you will need to define fact and dimension tables for a star schema for a particular analytic focus, and write an ETL pipeline that transfers data from files in two local directories into these tables in Postgres using Python and SQL.
A startup called Sparkify wants to analyze the data they've been collecting on songs and user activity on their new music streaming app. The analytics team is particularly interested in understanding what songs users are listening to. Currently, they don't have an easy way to query their data, which resides in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.
--->

## Acknowledgements

### The Million Song Dataset

The Million Song Dataset was created under a grant from the National Science Foundation, project IIS-0713334. The original data was contributed by The Echo Nest, as part of an NSF-sponsored GOALI collaboration. Subsequent donations from SecondHandSongs.com, musiXmatch.com, and last.fm, as well as further donations from The Echo Nest, are gratefully acknowledged.

Any opinions, findings and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the sponsors.

The [Million Song Dataset](http://millionsongdataset.com/) is a freely-available collection of audio features and metadata for a million contemporary popular music tracks.

Its purposes are:

  To encourage research on algorithms that scale to commercial sizes
  
  
  To provide a reference dataset for evaluating research
  
  
  As a shortcut alternative to creating a large dataset with APIs (e.g. The Echo Nest's)
  
  
  To help new researchers get started in the MIR field
  
Thierry Bertin-Mahieux, Daniel P.W. Ellis, Brian Whitman, and Paul Lamere. 
The Million Song Dataset. In Proceedings of the 12th International Society
for Music Information Retrieval Conference (ISMIR 2011), 2011.



